ObservationPlanRequests API (#2662)
skyportal/skyportal: doc/mma.md

# MMA Features

> We are beginning to add multi-messenger astronomy (MMA) features to the app. In particular, we are ingesting events from [GCN](https://gcn.gsfc.nasa.gov/); the service controlling this is here: https://github.com/skyportal/skyportal/blob/master/skyportal/services/gcn_service/gcn_service.py.

Author: yes.

We are ingesting gravitational-wave events from the International Gravitational-Wave Network (IGWN), gamma-ray burst events from Fermi Gamma-ray Burst Monitor (GBM), and neutrinos from IceCube. To each `GcnEvent` is associated a set of `Localization`s, which are HEALPix-based maps containing the probability density as a function of sky location. Each `GcnEvent` is identified by its event time (represented in ISO 8601 format (`YYYY-MM-DDTHH:MM:SS.sss`). The `Localization`s are connected to a `GcnEvent` by this `dateobs.`

> We are building out features on the **gcn_events** page, where information on the events (including the skymaps), and associated triggering of follow-up is being made available. In particular, `Allocations` now cover both transient follow-up (as a `FollowupRequest`) and GCN event follow-up (as an `ObservationPlanRequest`). The main difference between these two is that a `FollowupRequest` is a single pointing associated with a particular object. An `ObservationPlanRequest` performs tiling of a `Localization.`

Author: yes

> These `ObservationPlanRequest`s in particular are triggered on the front-end from the **gcn_events** page, with drop down menus creating a schedule for a given instrument. This request creates an `ObservationPlan`, which will then have the option of being sent to the instrument through the APIs developed in the **FollowupRequest** (see the APIs here: https://github.com/skyportal/skyportal/tree/master/skyportal/facility_apis).

Author: Yup

The features are available on the **gcn_events** page, where information on the events (including the skymaps), and associated triggering of follow-up is available. In particular, `Allocations` now cover both transient follow-up (as a `FollowupRequest`) and GCN event follow-up (as an `ObservationPlanRequest`). The main difference between these two is that a `FollowupRequest` is a single pointing associated with a particular object. An `ObservationPlanRequest` (which triggers an associated `EventObservationPlan` with knowledge of the particular fields, filters, and exposure times to be used) performs tiling of a `Localization.`

These `ObservationPlanRequest`s in particular are triggered on the front-end from the **gcn_events** page, with drop down menus creating a schedule for a given instrument. This request creates an `EventObservationPlan`, which will then have the option of being sent to the instrument through the APIs developed in the **FollowupRequest** (see the APIs here: https://github.com/skyportal/skyportal/tree/master/skyportal/facility_apis).

> To evaluate the efficacy of the executed observation plans, we have the `ExecutedObservation`s table, which is accessible through the `observation` api. Post execution of the requested observations in the `EventObservationPlan`, one should upload those successfully executed to the `ExecutedObservation`s table. With information about the time of observation, filter, limiting magnitude, etc., the results of the observations can be compared to the `Localization`s to determine sky coverage and integrated probability contained with the map.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To evaluate the efficacy of the executed observation plans, we have the `ExecutedObservation`s table, which is accessible through the `observation` api. After execution of the requested observations in the `EventObservationPlan`, the user is responsible for uploading successfully executed observations to the `ExecutedObservation`s table. Users should include information about the time of observation, filter, limiting magnitude, etc. The results of the observations can be compared to the `Localization`s to determine sky coverage and integrated probability contained with the map.
```

# MMA Features

> Skyportal supports multi-messanger astronomy (MMA) features. In particular, we ingest events from [GCN](https://gcn.gsfc.nasa.gov/); the service controlling this is here: https://github.com/skyportal/skyportal/blob/master/skyportal/services/gcn_service/gcn_service.py.

Reviewer: I think `messenger` was the right spelling...

Author: HA!

> We ingest gravitational-wave events from the International Gravitational-Wave Network (IGWN), gamma-ray burst events from Fermi Gamma-ray Burst Monitor (GBM), and neutrinos from IceCube. To each `GcnEvent` is associated a set of `Localization`s, which are HEALPix-based maps containing the probability density as a function of sky location. Each `GcnEvent` is identified by its event time (represented in ISO 8601 format (`YYYY-MM-DDTHH:MM:SS.sss`). The `Localization`s are connected to a `GcnEvent` by this `dateobs.`

Reviewer: You have too many / unclosed parenthesis after ISO 8601 format.

Author: fixed.

The features are available on the **gcn_events** page, where information on the events (including the skymaps), and associated triggering of follow-up is available. In particular, `Allocations` now cover both transient follow-up (as a `FollowupRequest`) and GCN event follow-up (as an `ObservationPlanRequest`). The main difference between these two is that a `FollowupRequest` is a single pointing associated with a particular object. An `ObservationPlanRequest` (which triggers an associated `EventObservationPlan` with knowledge of the particular fields, filters, and exposure times to be used) performs tiling of a `Localization.`

These `ObservationPlanRequest`s in particular are triggered on the front-end from the **gcn_events** page, with drop down menus creating a schedule for a given instrument. This request creates an `EventObservationPlan`, which will then have the option of being sent to the instrument through the APIs developed in the **FollowupRequest** (see the APIs here: https://github.com/skyportal/skyportal/tree/master/skyportal/facility_apis).

> To evaluate the efficacy of the executed observation plans, we have the `ExecutedObservation`s table, which is accessible through the `observation` api. With information about the time of observation, filter, limiting magnitude, etc., the results of the observations can be compared to the `Localization`s to determine sky coverage and integrated probability contained with the map.

Reviewer: I am guessing `ExecutedObsevation`s are those that were actually carried out? Is there some feedback from the telescope API that really tells us the observation was taken? Or is it just info about observations commands sent to telescopes? Either way maybe clarify it in the text.

Author: added.
